## Generative AI to advance telehealth (Craig)
Generative AI can support the overall goal of telehealth: better health outcomes over a distance. The IMIA Telehealth WG has previously described how telehealth can support diverse health system needs, including patient-centered care, education, and public health management (Kuziemsky et al., 2018; Basu et al., 2021). During the COVID-19 pandemic, we saw telehealth expand beyond clinical care. Examples include patient education, supply chain management, and health workforce management (Basu et al., 2021). Generative AI could enhance our ability to deliver on all of those types of telehealth. 
 Our WG has described three telehealth patterns to support patient-centered care delivery: one-way, two-way, and multidimensional (Kuziemsky et al., 2018).  A common theme in our previous work is that information management is a core task for effective patient-centered telehealth.  Telehealth often requires collating and analyzing data from a range of sources and formats. Generative AI could play a key role in supporting Telehealth delivery at the micro, meso, and macro levels to provide context-specific, culturally appropriate care. Generative AI can augment telehealth services by facilitating the collection, analysis, and presentation of data from diverse sources, including symptom and diagnostic data (Ebnali et al., 2025; Pool et al., 2025) as part of delivering patient centered care (Tesfaye et al., 2026). 
However, as with any type of health information technology, we must remember that telehealth is only a means of supporting health system outcomes. Generative AI models and tools to support telehealth must be developed in consultation with end users, including patients, clinicians, and administrators. We cannot just accelerate the development of Generative AI models without due diligence in developing, evaluating, and implementing them with necessary oversight at all levels, including patient, clinical, administrative, sociotechnical, and ethical, to name a few. Telehealth implementation is an iterative learning health system, and Generative AI models must be continually evaluated to grow and evolve as health systems change. 

